hey guys welcome to my channel in case
you see me for the first time my name is
marina I was born and raised in Russia
and I just moved to the United States
three years ago so I'm this Russian
who's gonna teach you 50 common phrases
in Russian right now
[Music]
[Applause]
if you're interested in Russian culture
or maybe you're traveling to Russia this
is going to be super useful for you
because I'm gonna include hacks how to
pronounce Russian words and how to
communicate with Russia's and also I'm
going to include very modern Russian
phrases phrase number one and this is
the way you say hi in Russian super easy
remember yep
[Music]
privyet is informal if you want to sound
formal you can say this is it asteroids
yeah I know this is super complicated
and you're like what did she say okay
again they're asked sweets yeah this is
a formal way to say hi in Russian so you
can either go by previous and we would
love if you say previa like big I am
amazed by foreigners speaking Russian
please
you know don't be ashamed just go out
and say privyet don't think about stress
BTW if that's too complicated for you to
say yes in Russian you say that in order
to say no you can say yep in order to
say maybe you can say Navi are now Navi
are there means maybe a tough part we
Russians we say yes no maybe all
together in one phrase and that actually
makes sense
so you can say then yet Navi out of
there and this phrase means that you are
leaning towards saying no so for example
somebody asks you do you want to go to
Moscow next week and you're like then
yet not yet man
which means no not really I don't want
to go to Moscow because maybe you have
to finish some stuff in saint-petersburg
before you go to Moscow so you can say
Daniel Navy Ottoman which is if we
translate it verbatim means yes no maybe
next phrase my favorite because here's
the live hi I love you in Russian is
yellow blue bus yellow blue bus but you
can say yellow blue bus really quickly
and that would sound yellow give us
joining Russia compare yellow blue bus
yellow blue us really really similar and
every Russian would understand what you
mean so super easy to remember
yellow blue bus fast and you get I love
you in Russian okay other ways to say hi
dobra ultra if we translate a word to
word we get good morning
Dabra otra
now during the day you can say dobri
then it's good day or hello dobri g and
if you want to say good evening you can
say dobriy vecher good evening EE eh er
okay the next phrase you say after you
greet a person you tell him how happy
you are to see him and you say Rada
tibia visit if you were a female if
you're a man you say rad to babysit that
tibia visit
good to see you there are a couple of
ways to ask how are you in Russian and
giving you some background in America we
will ask how are you we do not expect an
explicit answer we just expect you know
the person to ask how are we and maybe
say good or fine in Russia if I call my
mom and she asks me how are you and I
say I'm fine thank you
she would be offended now in Russia you
have to go and talk about your life in
the period since you've last talks that
person so if mom calls me every day and
she asks how are you I have to answer
what we've eaten for breakfast what
we've eaten for dinner what we've done
yesterday evening bla bla so you have to
actually share this is how Russian
friendship works we share a lot of stuff
and we're friends so if somebody asks
you how are you not only you should say
that you are fine you should also tell
that you're enjoying your Russian trip
that yester you've been to the Mary's
get theatre and you're in love with
ballet
please remember that people would
understand but it's considered a little
rude just to reply with okay I'm okay
Russia so Godzilla how are you you can
also ask which is more complicated
Calcutta Bosch which means how is your
life going kak pusher vice or kak Zilla
if everything is going well you say
Kershaw which is well I'm doing well
Kershaw and then you go and talk about
how you're enjoying your life if
everything is awesome you can say pretty
crass nah procrastinate
it's again it's okay in Russia to share
like share I'm fine or so so is new
pleura new pleura which is not bad and
then you can complain it's okay as well
and in order to thank a person for
asking this question or just thank a
person in general the word thank you in
Russian is spasiba spasiba okay now if
you want to ask a person's name you ask
kak vas salute and this is a formal way
to ask it because bus is you with a
capital letter we don't have that in
American in English you want to be more
informal you can say cut Chiba I would
what is your name
calabaza wood and in order to answer you
say Mina the wood marina my name is
marina and by the way guys if you are
planning your trip to Russia or if you
want to brush up your russian language
skills I have a company that can help
you lengua trip comm is a booking
platform for language courses all over
the world
and will work with a lot of skills in
Russia and guess what there is a school
in st. Petersburg at that worked with
really closely and I rent my own
apartment to students that come to
Russia we moved there when I was 7 years
old and I moved out when I was 25 so if
you want to live in the same apartment
it's pretty central outside of July it's
always available to book on linguae trip
calm so the link will be below come to
Russia learn Russian and attend to local
language school with other people who
study Russian as well let's move on if
you are excited about the information
I'm giving you in this video and you
find it super useful you can thank me by
saying by Choi spasiba this is a
translation of thank you so much like
spicy rice thank you but thank you so
much is by Shia spasiba if you like this
video go ahead and type in a comment
below saying bye Troy spicy but trying
to have it in Russian let's see how how
it goes with you guys if you want to say
that's alright
you say music stuff if somebody says
thank you and you're like no worries
it's okay
necesita you wanna say excuse me
you say it's Bonita it's Venezia another
way to say excuse me is press teacher so
basically they're pretty much the same
so it's just it depends on what you want
to use more priced easier or is Vanita
assembly stepped on your pushed you and
somebody saying is Venezia you can say
no worries
right and no worries in Russian is Michi
was stretch them up new Chivo stretch
now okay now let's move to a little more
complicated stuff when you want to ask
somebody they speak English you ask them
we go by detail on Glee skin Vika very
tip on whiskey and by the way you would
be surprised how many people do not
speak English in Russia so be ready with
these phrases read them down take them
with you we come at a tip on these key
do you speak English the next race you
should learn is that you don't speak
Russian well yeah lo hago I do Peru skin
my Russian is not good I speak Russian
really Valley
ya lo Haga I do Piroska if you want to
say excuse me in a sense that you're
asking somebody to repeat something you
say stop press detail stop press detail
or you can just say stop stop what what
do you say excuse me
stop if somebody speaking too fast you
can tell them givanni ta mre linear go
very ta mre linear which means speak
slower if you are lost in the city and
you want to find your way you can ask
kak bright seeker and then include
destination for example how do I get to
the Hermitage kak pratik Armitage Oh
cack pratik Armitage exclamations in
Russia when you like something you can
say class and this is a common word we
have it in English we have it in German
we have it in a lot of languages so you
can just say class and that will be
Russian as well another way that we say
WOW is kruta crew
Wow and of course you can just say wow
we understand Wow Wow
if you want to inquire about the price
you can say skulker at the store
Boyka at the store how much does it cost
if you do not understand what's going on
you can say yeah yeah when you my you
Marina I don't understand
yeah and you've been you my ready not or
if you understand the part yeah just
goes away and leaves here with yappin
Amaya
yep and Amaya means I understand okay
super weird thing everybody thinks that
when they come to Russia and when they
drink alcohol they say Nesterov yeah
which sounds a lot like a Russian phrase
but it's actually from Poland and yes
Polish people use it but Russians do not
use it Russia's only use it when they
are with foreigners because they know
foreign is it gonna say necessarily and
they're like okay we're gonna say in
instead of as well I do that but when
Russians drink we don't say anything
we're like choking him Seth this means
like let's take our glasses chalking
says if you're in a really Russian
environment instead of just saying one
word would go and talk about the meaning
of life and the meaning of happiness
again Russians love to talk but you can
always say this that I wonder Stan
because it it has the meaning in Russia
it means that you're drinking for health
but how can you drink alcohol for health
that's a question let's move on if you
want to wish somebody a good meal you
say riad neva apetito and it is very
common to wish somebody to have a good
meal oh we said all the time the Yakama
apetito cuz food in russia is very
important lunch consists of three dishes
we have soup we have main dish we have
dessert so oh my god we'll love to eat
and you will be amazed how great food in
Russia is oh my gosh jeans are
restaurants any any restaurant that
belongs to that chain oh my god they're
my favorites if something is tasty so
you come to against restaurant you say
Kuzma gusta means tasty if you don't
like the food you can say foo which is
like X it's not very polite but people
get it fool if you wanna say high five
and we do that a lot in Russians they
bet high five die dad if you like
something you can say Minya and drive it
sir I like it
minion rides again with just adding the
near Bart you can say I don't like it I
mean yeah yeah good answer I don't like
it
minion drive it sir if it's your first
time in Russia you can say yeah PR
whereas receive it's my first time in
Russia yeah Fierro a class per se if you
want to ask somebody to add you on
facebook and yes we use a lot of apps in
Russia we have whatsapp will use
Facebook we use uber uber is really good
way to move around st. Petersburg Moscow
and some other cities in Russia but
LinkedIn is blocked and I assume maybe
some other websites bought as well but
the majority of services works so you
can ask a person to Eddie on Facebook
and you can say that by Mina face boot
camp dar by Mina Facebook yes when you
miss somebody you say yeah Cuchillo
patty BIA I miss you yes coach Aaron
Pizza beer if you want to stop something
you say stop stop in Russian it's the
same let's wrap up this video with a
couple of phrases to say good bye
a Russian the svidaniya which means see
you soon the Soudan yeah baka is an
informal way to say bye
baka baka if you are saying somebody if
you're wishing good night as someone you
can say spark when they not you good
night Spock why did not you stop going
it sale know what you and if somebody is
going away you can wish them a safe trip
which is she's leave ova butea she's
Leora booty alright guys this is the end
of this video I hope you enjoyed it I
hope you are still watching if you're
still watching please like this video so
that I know that it was super exciting
for you and you wash it up to the very
end if you're not yet subscribed to this
channel there is a red button below I
will be traveling to Russia the summer
and three
expect a lot of cool videos from Russia
ask me questions about Russia I can
answer them in English I can communicate
with you from an American perspective
I hope you liked it I will see you soon
and paka paka
[Music]